README.md, before:

makeDNG
===========

Simple tool for converting mosaiced (Bayer) TIFF files to Adobe DNG,
specifically suited for the Point Grey BFLY-U3-23S6C-C camera.

Usage:

    makeDNG input_tiff_file output_dng_file [cfa_pattern] [compression] [reelname] [frame number]
cfa_pattern can be from 0-3
  * 0 BGGR
  * 1 GBRG
  * 2 GRBG
  * 3 RGGB (default)

compression
  * 1 none (default)
  * 7 lossless JPEG
  * 8 Adobe Deflate (16-bit float)

reelname
  * An optional name for a sequence of images. Up to 31 characters.

frame number
  * A number that designates an image's unique place within a sequence. The
  frame number will be converted to SMPTE time code and is hardcoded to 18fps.
  The frame number should match the sequencing field of the file name. See §6.2
  of the CinemaDNG spec for details.

Notes:

Adobe Camera Raw sometimes decodes lossless JPEG files incorrectly, so this is
why lossless JPEG is not the default. Both RawTherapee 5.5 and ffmpeg decode
correctly, so I tend to think it is a bug in ACR. Use with caution if you care
about ACR.

Deflate compression requires floating point data, so the original linear 16-bit
data is scaled to [0, 1]. It might make sense to eventually change the scaling
factor, since middle gray should be at 0.18 if we are following OpenEXR convention.

The dcp subfolder contains the spectral data for the U3-23S6C as well as a script
to generate ForwardMatrix and ColorMatrix values with dcamprof.  The spectral
data is estimated from the graphic in the camera's data sheet, so don't put too
much trust in it.  A trivial patch is needed to add Ektaspace primaries to
dcamprof if that interests you.

Build Instructions:

 * An MSVC project is included. I haven't bothered to test on non-Windows
   systems, but it should be fairly portable.
 * libtiff newer than around 4.0.6 is required for some of the DNG tags.
   Even when compression is used, no optional libs (zlib/zstd/lzma/libjpeg) are
   needed. We compress each tile with LJ92 ourselves and write them with
   TIFFWriteRawTile, but having libjpeg will suppress a warning from libtiff.
 * A patched libtiff is needed if you want to write some of the lens EXIF
   tags. This is very optional, but does avoid RawTherapee reporting your lens
   as "Unknown".

TODO:

 * Use threads to compress each tile
 * Add support for non-mod16 tile sizes (use padding)
 * Implement the floating point X2 predictor (34894)

References:

Thanks to the following for their previous work:

prng by Ben Pfaff https://benpfaff.org/writings/clc/random.html  
elphel_dng by Dave Coffin http://community.elphel.com/files/jp4/elphel_dng.c  
makeDNG from the Field project http://openendedgroup.com/field/images/makeDNG.zip  
tiff2raw by Allan G. Weber http://sipi.usc.edu/database/tiff2raw.c  
rawtiDNG by Kevin Lawson https://github.com/kelvinlawson/rawti-tools  
Lossless JPEG by Andrew Baldwin https://bitbucket.org/baldand/mlrawviewer

Commit message:

Add markdown formatting to README, document how to build in Linux

README.md, after:

# makeDNG

Simple tool for converting mosaiced (Bayer) TIFF files to Adobe DNG,
specifically suited for the Point Grey BFLY-U3-23S6C-C camera.

# Usage:

    makeDNG input_tiff_file output_dng_file [cfa_pattern] [compression] [reelname] [frame number]
cfa_pattern can be from 0-3
  * 0 BGGR
  * 1 GBRG
  * 2 GRBG
  * 3 RGGB (default)

compression
  * 1 none (default)
  * 7 lossless JPEG
  * 8 Adobe Deflate (16-bit float)

reelname
  * An optional name for a sequence of images. Up to 31 characters.

frame number
  * A number that designates an image's unique place within a sequence. The
  frame number will be converted to SMPTE time code and is hardcoded to 18fps.
  The frame number should match the sequencing field of the file name. See §6.2
  of the CinemaDNG spec for details.

# Notes:

Adobe Camera Raw sometimes decodes lossless JPEG files incorrectly, so this is
why lossless JPEG is not the default. Both RawTherapee 5.5 and ffmpeg decode
correctly, so I tend to think it is a bug in ACR. Use with caution if you care
about ACR.

Deflate compression requires floating point data, so the original linear 16-bit
data is scaled to [0, 1]. It might make sense to eventually change the scaling
factor, since middle gray should be at 0.18 if we are following OpenEXR convention.

The dcp subfolder contains the spectral data for the U3-23S6C as well as a script
to generate ForwardMatrix and ColorMatrix values with dcamprof.  The spectral
data is estimated from the graphic in the camera's data sheet, so don't put too
much trust in it.  A trivial patch is needed to add Ektaspace primaries to
dcamprof if that interests you.

# Build Instructions

## Windows build (Visual Studio 2017):

 * An MSVC project is included.
 * libtiff newer than around 4.0.6 is required for some of the DNG tags.
   Even when compression is used, no optional libs (zlib/zstd/lzma/libjpeg) are
   needed. We compress each tile with LJ92 ourselves and write them with
   TIFFWriteRawTile, but having libjpeg will suppress a warning from libtiff.
 * A patched libtiff is needed if you want to write some of the lens EXIF
   tags. This is very optional, but does avoid RawTherapee reporting your lens
   as "Unknown".

Linux build (tested on Ubuntu 20.04):

In the base directory for the project, build with:

```
gcc -std=c99 -g -oO *.c -o makedng -lz -ltiff -lm
```

# TODO:

 * Use threads to compress each tile
 * Add support for non-mod16 tile sizes (use padding)
 * Implement the floating point X2 predictor (34894)

# References:

Thanks to the following for their previous work:

prng by Ben Pfaff https://benpfaff.org/writings/clc/random.html  
elphel_dng by Dave Coffin http://community.elphel.com/files/jp4/elphel_dng.c  
makeDNG from the Field project http://openendedgroup.com/field/images/makeDNG.zip  
tiff2raw by Allan G. Weber http://sipi.usc.edu/database/tiff2raw.c  
rawtiDNG by Kevin Lawson https://github.com/kelvinlawson/rawti-tools  
Lossless JPEG by Andrew Baldwin https://bitbucket.org/baldand/mlrawviewer
